Given the increasingly rapid development of new technologies in society in only makes sense that many of these newer revolutionary ideas will make their way into the average person’s daily life. Of these new technologies, Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one that will have a broad scope of utilization and implementation into different areas of society. As such the broader education field can gain a lot from the implementation of AI. 
One such usage of AI would be in the form of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). These online courses would function in a similar fashion to a normal classroom in the secondary or post-secondary world of education. Lectures are taught online through pre-recorded videos, or in a live-streamed format, that offers students the ability to ask questions in real time. Assignment can still be handed out in a regular and structured manner, and they can even be streamlined to reduce the potential workload for the instructors. Thus, affording them more time for interactions with the students. Additionally, data collection and analytics can be implemented through their usage, something that is not easy to execute in a traditional classroom setting. As such, “Online courses are not only good for widespread delivery, but are natural vehicles for data collection and experimental instrumentation that will contribute to scientific findings and improving the quality of learning at scale. (Standing Committee of the One Hundred Year Study of Artificial Intelligence, 2016)”
However, the general implementation of MOOCs and AI in the education sector is not without its own trials. Students who come from rural areas or from a disadvantaged background may find it hard to work in the online classroom. The first requirement of the online classroom is that the student, have constant access to a computer and high-speed broadband internet. Resources that may not be readily available in school districts for younger children, or affordable for some older students, or the parent of young children. Additionally, there is a requirement that both the students and the instructors have a certain minimum level of computer literacy. As noted by the University of Illinois Springfield, “If they do not possess these technology tools, they will not succeed in an online program; a student or faculty member who cannot function on the system will drag the entire program down. (University of Illinois Springfield, 2021)” Online education is of course highly dependent on the technology used in it. For instance, if hardware fails, or a large-scale internet outage occurs, this brings learning to a halt.
Additionally, lockdowns and distance learning associated with COVID-19 have shown that younger students are far more dependent on the physical and personal connections associated with in person learning. Something that MOOCs and other versions of learning through a screen are not quite capable of providing. Younger students in particular are not accustomed to learning in isolation. “Those moments of working alongside a friend or asking a teacher for guidance allow students to feel connected to others, and this sense of belonging influences students’ engagement in class. (Stringer, 2020)” This would in turn reduce the effectiveness of AI in the classroom.
